Readd FAQ Page. (#238)
gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Site: Wiki/FAQ.md

# BOINC

## Choosing BOINC projects: In BOINC, is there still a defined whitelist of "projects" or can we use any project now that has Gridcoin as a Team Name?

Running "projects" in the console will list all the whitelisted
projects you could possibly contribute to that would help your Gridcoin
Research
wallet.

## If it says "non participating project" does that mean that they aren't accepted for Gridcoin purposes?

That means you aren't participating in those projects or the e-mail
address you have in the conf file doesn't match the e-mail address used
in your BOINC manager on that machine. For every project you join, you
also have to join the Gridcoin team on that project. Any changes about
e-mail address on a project or team membership on a project take around
a day to
propagate.

## I use BOINC with one username but on a few machines - is it enough to have one wallet with the proper boinc\_project\_email address, or do I have to have a separate wallet on each machine?

You only need one wallet for each BOINC account/CPID (Cross Project

> Identifier). You can use an account manager to combine more
> projects in one CPID. Your reward is

Reviewer: Using an account manager isn't a requirement to crunching multiple projects
```suggestion
Identifier). Optionally, you can use an account manager to help maintain
projects in under CPID and avoid CPID splits. Your reward is

```

That is perfectly normal, when pool-mining you do work for the pool's
account and as a reward get transactions from the pool for the work you
did. Because of this you do not work for your own CPID and have no
magnitude.

## I am crunching for the pool but even though I work on projects this is not shown on the profile page of the pool. What can I do?

Make sure you remove all existing projects from the BOINC manager before
syncing to the pool. Then you can add new projects from the page of the
pool.

## I have connections but the number of blocks does not increase. What can I do?

If you have connections you should be fine and the wallet will sort
itself out. If after a few hours your number of blocks still doesn't increase check to make sure you're using the latest version of the wallet.

## I had a magnitude for some time but it dropped to 0. What happened?

The reason for this is most likely that you have to resend your beacon,
which should be done every 6 months. For this either unlock your wallet
so that it sends automatically or type `advertisebeacon` in the
console.

# Gridcoin & Science

## Why is Gridcoin (GRC) special?

Gridcoin allows  Nearly all computing power (up to

> 98% efficiency) can be directed at beneficial scientific and medical

Reviewer 2: Is this 98 % still correct? I think it could be even more.

Reviewer 3: I would remove the % comment as baseless conjecture

percentage (subject to number of total projects). And projects can be
removed by a blockchain vote.

Security in Gridcoin is derived from Blackcoin's industry-leading
Proof-of-Stake.

# Crunching (Research & Mining Equivalent)

## How do I start crunching?

First, [Get some coins](Get_some_coins "wikilink"), then see [Mining
setup](Mining-Setup "wikilink").

## My CPID is not in the network, What do I do?

If you are in the pool, this is normal. If you are attempting to
solo-stake, go through the following:

If you have just begun your BOINC journey it is quite possible your work
units haven't been verified by the necessary servers. Don't Panic,
Gridcoin is a game of patience. Just relax, take a day or two, and see
if the problem persists. If so, proceed to the following steps.

To ensure your wallet is fully unlocked, lock your wallet with a
passphrase (make it LONG, a password manager like KeePass is
recommended) and then unlock it with "for staking only" UNticked.

Next, go to Help -\> Debug Window, go to the Console tab and type
`advertisebeacon` without the quotes.

This will (if successful) send a small transaction at the cost of

> -0.00011 GRC. This should add your CPID with the next superblock.

Reviewer 3: this number will change in Fern

Author: So what should I change it to or should I just remove the number?

Reviewer 3: I would change it to 1 GRC fee.  @cyrossignol can correct me if I'm wrong on that number

have over 100 RAC on at least 1 whitelisted BOINC project before you can
send a beacon to receive Research credit. After your CPID is in the
Network, all research credits you earn will accrue in a "savings
account" for a rolling 14 day period. You have up to 2 full weeks to
stake a block without losing any research credit
earned.

## Is it true that someone would not lose reward if blocks are created on a fork?

If you stake on a fork, the stake you see is not actually legitimate. When your wallet figures out that it is on a fork, you will see these rewards disappear since they shouldn't have shown up in the first place. This process happens automatically. While frustrating, once off of the fork, you are still able to stake again. 

## What should I put in my config-file for Gridcoin-Research?

Please check here [this page](https://gridcoin.us/Wiki/Config-File)

## How can I tell if I've mined a block?

First look at the transaction list for "PoR" payments.

If you don't have any PoR yet, do a "list mymagnitude" in the debug
console and look for the savings account balance "owed". That will be
what you accrue for your first payment. It has to be higher than the

> subsidyschedule max block / 10, IE 40 right now in order to actually

Reviewer 3: this entire paragraph is wrong

There are also overrun CPU projects or projects that do not provide
constant work unit (WU) flow.

Try different projects and see whether your hardware can keep up a high
magnitude. You can review your outcome magnitude in the wallet.

Anyway, if you like a project you should still support it, to keep the BOINC
spirit up.

Additionally, you might want to re-visit the projects you contribute to,
you don't want to contribute CPU power to a project that allows GPUs its
like trying to mine Bitcoin with your PC, you are competing with the
wrong equipment. You might start by visiting this list:
<https://boinc.berkeley.edu/projects.php> and make sure you
aren't using your CPU for projects that have the ATI or Nvidia icon. You
can also maximize your magnitude by finding projects that have smaller
team RAC (just make sure they have work available) on the network report
which you can find here:
<https://stats.free-dc.org/stats.php?page=teambycpid&team=Gridcoin>

# Staking

## How is the amount of stake-reward calculated?

The stake reward is calculated by two combined
algorithms.

`Proof of Stake rewards will give you 10 GRC for each block you stake  

> `Proof of Research rewards for BOINC contribution, though research activity. A PoR block is a combined payment 10 GRC and research reward.`

Reviewer 3: Remove POR phrasing

## The wallet says "Not Staking because you don't have mature coins" , how long does it take for coins to mature?

> It takes about 16 hours for GRC to become mature from the time of

Reviewer 3: Suggest remove "about"

64 and 32 bit OSes. Some BOINC projects are limited to architecture. We
definitely need a set of guidelines to follow before adding a project to
the whitelist. It is favorable to choose projects that are accessible
to the masses.

## How do I delete a project from my list of CPIDs?

We used to support detaching but a vote was made to calculate magnitude
on every project you still have valid RAC on; so GRC does not support
detaching projects (it was supposed to prevent gaming the system). There
is no difference if you score 0 on a projects, as all are taken into
account equally.

If you insist on not being paid for a specific project, change your team
away from team Gridcoin for that project.

# Status

## How can I see my Researching Status?

If you have some BOINC credits, you are in team Gridcoin and your email
is correct in the gridcoinresearch.conf file you should see a list of
the projects you are participating in when entering "*list cpids*" to
the debug console of the wallet (Help -\> Debug Window -\> Console). It
may take 24-48 hours for new accounts to be populated.

## What does "diff" exactly measure? What does it tell if it's high or low?

> Difficulty (diff) is a variable int representing how hard the PoS

Reviewer 3: difficulty is not an integer

algorithm has to make the next block to keep block minting periods at a
stable 90 seconds rate into the future.

When a lot of researchers are eligible at the same time for a block,
diff rises to slow down minting. In contrast when no one is online
mining, diff will drop to lure in miners to keep our blocks staking at
once per 90 seconds.

Another way to look at diff is how many distinct PoR miners are eligible

> during any one minute to stake. When diff is @20, it means 20 miners

Reviewer 3: this is incorrect

were on-line that minute with solutions, so diff is rising to keep
emission steady.

It's very similar to PoW diff. The big advantage we have in this version
with PoR is we can accommodate thousands of new miners without seizing
the chain with the RSA (Research Savings Account) and the 90 seconds
block times.

## What does stake weight mean?

The personal stake weight it how many coins are eligible for staking \*

> coin age for your node.

Reviewer 3: we no longer use coin age

The network stake weight is the sum of coin age mined in the last 72
blocks by the network.

## How to call commands when starting Gridcoin Wallet on Windows?

Create shortcut that links to the actual GRC program in Program Files
directory and add the function at the end of the target, then properly
name them for the function to execute:

Example with -rescan option: Make a new shortcut to "C:\\Program Files
(x86)\\GridcoinResearch\\gridcoinresearch.exe" or "C:\\Program

> Files\\GridcoinResearch\\gridcoinresearch.exe"

Reviewer 3: The first directory listed is invalid, we do not support 32 bit anymore

Reviewer 2: That's not correct. We do support 32 bit windows again.
(https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research/releases/download/4.0.6.0/gridcoin-4.0.6-win32-setup.exe)

Reviewer 3: My bad.  Either way, the 64 bit directory should be first as that is _much_ more common

Author: They are most likely using the 64bit wallet if they are on a 64 bit system right?

## Which is the best practice to save my new wallet?

Different methods were discussed in the Gridcoin Community Classroom
\#003: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JxrjUwX5XvA>

ref:
<https://cryptocurrencytalk.com/topic/1331-new-coin-launch-announcement-grc-gridcoin/?view=findpost&p=158422>

## How to compress my wallet getting rid of orphans?

The quick and easy way.

1.  Close your client and rename wallet.dat to wallet.bak
2.  Start client. Once started, click receive coins and see your 1st
    address and copy the address down.
3.  Close client and rename wallet.dat to somethingelse.bak
4.  Rename wallet.bak to wallet.dat
5.  Start client and send all coins to the address you copied down in
    step 2.
6.  Make sure you get at least 10 confirmation for the transaction.
7.  Close client and rename wallet.dat to wallet.bak and rename
    somethingelse.bak to wallet.dat
8.  Start client and enjoy your new wallet.

The reason why you should never dump private keys or wallet is that if
your PC is compromised, you probably won't know it and the moment you
dump your keys, someone on the listening side will get your private key,

> and therefore get your coins.

Reviewer 3: I feel this explanation is unwarranted

Yes. You will lose your coin stake, and it will take 4 hours for coins

> to start staking again.

Reviewer 3: this is false

## What is Gridcoin Classic

Gridcoin Classic was the first iteration of Gridcoin. Gridcoin classic
is no longer used and all coins where converted to Gridcoin Research
coins via Proof of Burn. The Burn process ended April 20, 2015. If you
missed the Burn deadline, your coins are now in the possession of the
Gridcoin Foundation and can no longer be claimed.

# Development

## Where can I find the source?

<https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research>

## How could I participate in testnet?

Testnet is just like production (regular wallet), except it uses a
different port and a different directory; so you copy your
gridcoinresearch.conf down a level (%appdir%/gridcoinresearch/testnet)
and everything works almost the same, except the diff rules make it
slightly easier and of course all the money is fake. The data files are
stored one directory down also. You will have to start
Gridcoinresearch.exe with -testnet flag, for example due to the creation
of a shortcut with this flag.

For Windows, simply add testnet=1 to gridcoinresearch.conf file. The
wallet will automatically create the necessary directories. To revert to
normal wallet, change it to testnet=0.

> 

Reviewer 3: **Do not do this**

# Troubleshoot

## After reloading blockchain some coins are no longer in my wallet

Try running the client with "-rescan" or run the console command
"repairwallet".

## My wallet has smaller balance than last time. How to fix?

Try starting Gridcoin with option '-rescan'. Go in debug and do
"repairwallet" or "rebuilt block chain" to fix the local amount.

## What needs to happen to be added to the chain as a newbie?

1. All the normal prerequisites mentioned: RAC > 100 in at least 1 project, correct email in the
gridcoinresearch.conf, being in a recognised team.

2. A balance that is > 5000 GRC is recommended. Staking at a minimum of 16 hours so the
stakeable coins are mature.

3. The wallet has to be fully unlocked (untick "for staking only")
until it automatically sends a beacon. You can force the wallet to do so
once it recognizes your CPID. Go to the debug console and do
`advertisebeacon force`.

> 

Reviewer 3: I would not recommend using `force`

4. Once #3 is fulfilled, that node should be in the Network
within 12 hours.

> 

Reviewer 3: 25 hours

-0.00011 GRC. This should add your CPID with the next superblock.

To see if your CPID is included, go to the Console and type `beaconreport`. If your CPID is present, sync the Neural Network by
typing `syncdpor2` in the Console. If successful, the output
should be '"syncing": 1'.

If your CPID is not included, wait for the next superblock. In case your
CPID isn't included after a few superblocks, try resending your beacon
(`advertisebeacon`).

Lock your wallet again, but this time unlock it with "for staking only"
ticked.

## How long does it take to start receiving Research (mining) credit?

This depends on several factors. You must have some coins to begin with,
some have started with as few as 100 coins, but the general recommendation now is around 5000. You must send a "beacon",
this is how your information is populated into the Neural Network which
controls payments, see [Mining setup](Mining-Setup "wikilink"). You must
have over 100 RAC on at least 1 whitelisted BOINC project before you can
send a beacon to receive Research credit. After your CPID is in the
Neural Network, all research credits you earn will accrue in a "savings

> account" for a rolling 14 day period. You have up to 2 full weeks to

Reviewer 4: none of this is accurate, except for the 5000. You should also be thinking about discussing the new rules, post fern. See the writeup in https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research/pull/1657

stake a block without losing any research credit
earned.

## Is it true that someone would not lose reward if blocks are created on a fork?

> YES! If you find a block on a fork your "owed" balance will be reduced

Reviewer: This section should probably just be rewritten. It can be made much simpler to something like:

```If you stake on a fork, the stake you see is not actually legitimate. When your wallet figures out that it is on a fork, you will see these rewards disappear since they shouldn't have shown up in the first place. This process happens automatically. While frustrating, once off of the fork, you are still able to stake again. ```

on that fork but it won't be reduced on the main block chain because
that block wasn't really found by you on that fork. So once you sync
back up with the main chain you will see the block you found change to
an orphan (with the ?) and the balance in your research savings account
will increase by that amount so that when you find a block on the main
chain you will be paid for the research you are owed. This is what makes
this method so much more fair, than the old PoW system. With
Proof-of-Research as long as you find enough blocks in a 2 week window
to be paid your full reward within the payout rules you will receive all
the rewards you earned in the same period.

## What should I put in my config-file for Gridcoin-Research?

> Please find gridcoinresearch.conf in your

Reviewer: This can probably just say link to the Config-File page instead of explaining this the Config-File page is more likely to be up to date

%appdata%\\roaming\\gridcoinresearch folder and insert a line for your
BOINC email address if it is empty:

`email=YourBoincEmail`  
`addnode=node.gridcoin.us`

These lines should already suffice. Else, find more at [GridcoinResearch
Config
file](Gridcoinresearch-Config-File "wikilink")

## How can I tell if I've mined a block?

> First look at the transaction list for "PoR" payments.

Reviewer: This section needs to be rewritten. Shouldn't be too difficult

If you don't have any PoR yet, do a "list mymagnitude" in the debug
console and look for the savings account balance "owed". That will be
what you accrue for your first payment. It has to be higher than the
subsidyschedule max block / 10, IE 40 right now in order to actually
generate.

## Reward calculation: what is RAC?

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BOINC_Credit_System#Recent_average_credit>

## Reward calculation: what is magnitude?

The reward calculation is based on the relative contribution of a user

> to the total contribution of team Gridcoin. This is being calculated

Reviewer: The team Gridcoin part of this is no longer accurate. There are other whitelited teams and soon all teams will be whitelisted. Maybe just say `total contribution from other crunchers earning Gridcoin`

> within every project and the sum of the relative contributions is the

Reviewer: Could rephrase to say something like `Magnitude is calculated separately for each project. When calculating research rewards, a user 's magnitude across every project is added together.`

magnitude which is being used to calculate the reward. Besides the
research rewards, each mined block contains interest.

## Is it possible to join a pool?

Yes, there are pools at <https://grcpool.com/> and
<https://grc.arikado.ru/>

## I am BOINCing nonstop but my magnitude is very low. What can I do?

Regarding your magnitude: You should have an eye on your RAC and the

> project total RAC within team Gridcoin. Be aware that BOINC RAC is

Reviewer: Same comment about teams as above

> measured weekly, with the most recent week being higher weighted, the

Reviewer: This part is confusingly worded. Maybe say `RAC is a rolling average over the past month. It is weighted to increase the value of more recent contributions`

next week being weighted at half of the recent week and so on, it
therefore takes a number of weeks of consistent BOINC work on a
specified project, for RAC to increase to sustainable levels.

> Have a look here:

Reviewer: Maybe just link to quickmag (http://quickmag.ml/cgi-bin/script.cgi) and rewrite this part

<http://www.gridresearchcorp.com/gridcoin/?result&t=Whitelisted_Project_Leaderboard>
. If your hardware is not strong or compatible, you should keep away
from some projects. For example, GPUGRID is very popular for high end
GPUs so the team RAC is high. My GTX 770 got me RAC way above 10k but
the magnitude was smaller than 10. So I decided to let others work on
that project.

There are also overrun CPU projects or projects that do not provide
constant work unit (WU) flow.

Try different projects and see whether your hardware can keep up a high
magnitude. You can review your outcome magnitude in the Neural Network.

> Go to Advanced -\> Neural Network and search for your CPID. Then you can

Reviewer: Same deal about the Neural Network stuff. Might be able to axe this whole paragraph

double click to drill into your participation or have a look here:
<http://www.gridresearchcorp.com/gridcoin/?result&t=CPID_Leaderboard>

Anyway, if you like a project you should support it, to keep the BOINC

> spirit up ;) I like the LHC and everything concerning CERN so I keep

Reviewer: Don't think we need to write from first person here. Can cut out pretty much everything from the` ; ) `onward

participating although it's not really worth it regarding GRC because
they sometimes have an unstable WU feed.

Additionally, you might want to re-visit the projects you contribute to,

> you don't want to contribute CPU power to a project that allows GPUs its

Reviewer: Not sure this analogy is particularly helpful for many since many are not familiar with cryptocurrencies. Could either remove it or come up with something else

Reviewer 4: Yeah... I agree.

like trying to mine Bitcoin with your PC, you are competing with the
wrong equipment. You might start by visiting this list:

> <http://wiki.gridcoin.us/Current_BOINC_Whitelist> and make sure you

Reviewer: Not a valid link anymore. Maybe change to to https://gridcoin.us/Guides/whitelist.htm

which you can find here:
<http://www.gridresearchcorp.com/gridcoin/?result&t=Whitelisted_Project_Leaderboard>

# Staking

## How is the amount of stake-reward calculated?

The stake reward is calculated by two combined
algorithms.

`Proof of Stake rewards will give you 10 GRC for each block you stack`  
`Proof of Research rewards for BOINC contribution, though research activity. A PoR block is a combined payment 10 GRC and research reward.`

## The wallet says "Not Staking because you don't have mature coins" , how long does it take for coins to mature?

It takes about 16 hours for GRC to become mature from the time of
arrival in your wallet. After a specific set of coins have Staked, they
will need to mature again for 16 hours before they can Stake again.

## Why can't I send coins in my wallet balance?

You may have a balance reserved in stake. If this ever happens to you do
this in the console:

`reservebalance true AMOUNT`

Where AMOUNT is the amount you want to send

Wait a few blocks

Then send
it.

## When I get an interest/mining payment, a portion of my GRC looks to be moving from my total balance into the "Stake" line of the wallet balance. Is that correct?

> Every 4 hours the wallet is on-line, it looks for old coins that can

Reviewer: Not sure this is accurate

accrue interest and moves them from 'Balance' to 'Stake' then it works
on staking. Once staked, it moves the staked balance back to
balance.

## I lose my stakeweight after receiving PoR? The "maturecoin-creationprocess" is starting again after each mined PoR?

> Yes that is normal, because your node builds up a set of stakeable coins

Reviewer: Also not sure this is acurate

Reviewer 4: This needs to be removed. It is not true.

and once you stake them the process takes about 4 more hours to get new
mature coins, unless some have been found in between (it's a constant
process).

## Do I have to leave my wallet unencrypted to be able to stake?

> Well, if you encrypt your wallet and enter `walletpassphrase

Reviewer: Can simplify
```suggestion
If you encrypt your wallet, you will need to unlock it to be able to stake.
If you only want to stake, make sure to leave unlock for staking checked when unlocking the wallet.
```

\[passphrase\] 86400`, that would unlock it for 24 hours for staking.

> Your wallet file remains encrypted and since you do not have to enable

Reviewer: I think it's best to just get rid of this paragraph

external RPC access for mining anymore, it's safe aside from physical
access or perhaps memory leakage.

## Can I stake with encrypted wallet?

> Yes, but you have to unlock it first. It's okay to unlock it "for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, but you have to unlock it first. It's recommended to unlock it "for
```

staking only".

The console walletpassphrase command does what clicking the lock button
does.

To lock Type

`walletlock`

to unlock for a certain time type

`walletpassphrase PASSWORD TIMEOUT`

to unlock type

`walletpassphrase PASSWORD`

to unlock only for staking type

`walletpassphrase PASSWORD TIMEOUT true`

## How do you turn staking on and off?

`walletpassphrase "your passphrase in double quotes" timeout true`

where timeout is a number of seconds, e.g. 10000 and true is a toggle
that unlocks the wallet for staking
only.

# BOINC

## Choosing BOINC projects: In BOINC, is there still a defined whitelist of "projects" or can we use any project now that has Gridcoin as a Team Name?

> Running "list projects" in console will list all the whitelisted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running "listprojects" in console will list all the whitelisted
```

Author: would just `projects` be better?

Output of listprojects:
```
{
"Amicable_Numbers": {
"display_name": "Amicable Numbers",
"url": "http://sech.me/boinc/Amicable/@",
"base_url": "http://sech.me/boinc/Amicable/",
"display_url": "http://sech.me/boinc/Amicable/",
"stats_url": "http://sech.me/boinc/Amicable/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 22:29:16 UTC"
},
"asteroids@home": {
"display_name": "asteroids@home",
"url": "http://asteroidsathome.net/boinc/@",
"base_url": "http://asteroidsathome.net/boinc/",
"display_url": "http://asteroidsathome.net/boinc/",
"stats_url": "http://asteroidsathome.net/boinc/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 20:44:17 UTC"
},
"collatz_conjecture": {
"display_name": "collatz conjecture",
"url": "http://boinc.thesonntags.com/collatz/@",
"base_url": "http://boinc.thesonntags.com/collatz/",
"display_url": "http://boinc.thesonntags.com/collatz/",
"stats_url": "http://boinc.thesonntags.com/collatz/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 22:29:38 UTC"
},
"cosmology@home": {
"display_name": "cosmology@home",
"url": "http://www.cosmologyathome.org/@",
"base_url": "http://www.cosmologyathome.org/",
"display_url": "http://www.cosmologyathome.org/",
"stats_url": "http://www.cosmologyathome.org/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 20:52:19 UTC"
},
"einstein@home": {
"display_name": "einstein@home",
"url": "http://einstein.phys.uwm.edu/@",
"base_url": "http://einstein.phys.uwm.edu/",
"display_url": "http://einstein.phys.uwm.edu/",
"stats_url": "http://einstein.phys.uwm.edu/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 22:30:02 UTC"
},
"gpugrid": {
"display_name": "gpugrid",
"url": "http://www.gpugrid.net/@",
"base_url": "http://www.gpugrid.net/",
"display_url": "http://www.gpugrid.net/",
"stats_url": "http://www.gpugrid.net/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 21:00:22 UTC"
},
"lhc@home_classic": {
"display_name": "lhc@home classic",
"url": "https://lhcathome.cern.ch/lhcathome/@",
"base_url": "https://lhcathome.cern.ch/lhcathome/",
"display_url": "https://lhcathome.cern.ch/lhcathome/",
"stats_url": "https://lhcathome.cern.ch/lhcathome/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 21:04:24 UTC"
},
"milkyway@home": {
"display_name": "milkyway@home",
"url": "http://milkyway.cs.rpi.edu/milkyway/@",
"base_url": "http://milkyway.cs.rpi.edu/milkyway/",
"display_url": "http://milkyway.cs.rpi.edu/milkyway/",
"stats_url": "http://milkyway.cs.rpi.edu/milkyway/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 21:08:26 UTC"
},
"nfs@home": {
"display_name": "nfs@home",
"url": "http://escatter11.fullerton.edu/nfs/@",
"base_url": "http://escatter11.fullerton.edu/nfs/",
"display_url": "http://escatter11.fullerton.edu/nfs/",
"stats_url": "http://escatter11.fullerton.edu/nfs/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 21:12:27 UTC"
},
"numberfields@home": {
"display_name": "numberfields@home",
"url": "https://numberfields.asu.edu/NumberFields/@",
"base_url": "https://numberfields.asu.edu/NumberFields/",
"display_url": "https://numberfields.asu.edu/NumberFields/",
"stats_url": "https://numberfields.asu.edu/NumberFields/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 22:31:24 UTC"
},
"odlk1": {
"display_name": "odlk1",
"url": "https://boinc.multi-pool.info/latinsquares/@",
"base_url": "https://boinc.multi-pool.info/latinsquares/",
"display_url": "https://boinc.multi-pool.info/latinsquares/",
"stats_url": "https://boinc.multi-pool.info/latinsquares/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 21:20:31 UTC"
},
"rosetta@home": {
"display_name": "rosetta@home",
"url": "http://boinc.bakerlab.org/rosetta/@",
"base_url": "http://boinc.bakerlab.org/rosetta/",
"display_url": "http://boinc.bakerlab.org/rosetta/",
"stats_url": "http://boinc.bakerlab.org/rosetta/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 21:24:33 UTC"
},
"SRBase": {
"display_name": "SRBase",
"url": "http://srbase.my-firewall.org/sr5/@",
"base_url": "http://srbase.my-firewall.org/sr5/",
"display_url": "http://srbase.my-firewall.org/sr5/",
"stats_url": "http://srbase.my-firewall.org/sr5/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 21:28:34 UTC"
},
"TN-Grid": {
"display_name": "TN-Grid",
"url": "http://gene.disi.unitn.it/test/@",
"base_url": "http://gene.disi.unitn.it/test/",
"display_url": "http://gene.disi.unitn.it/test/",
"stats_url": "http://gene.disi.unitn.it/test/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 21:32:35 UTC"
},
"universe@home": {
"display_name": "universe@home",
"url": "http://universeathome.pl/universe/@",
"base_url": "http://universeathome.pl/universe/",
"display_url": "http://universeathome.pl/universe/",
"stats_url": "http://universeathome.pl/universe/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 21:36:37 UTC"
},
"World_Community_Grid": {
"display_name": "World Community Grid",
"url": "https://www.worldcommunitygrid.org/boinc/@",
"base_url": "https://www.worldcommunitygrid.org/boinc/",
"display_url": "https://www.worldcommunitygrid.org/",
"stats_url": "https://www.worldcommunitygrid.org/boinc/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 22:31:44 UTC"
},
"yafu": {
"display_name": "yafu",
"url": "http://yafu.myfirewall.org/yafu/@",
"base_url": "http://yafu.myfirewall.org/yafu/",
"display_url": "http://yafu.myfirewall.org/yafu/",
"stats_url": "http://yafu.myfirewall.org/yafu/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 21:44:40 UTC"
},
"yoyo@home": {
"display_name": "yoyo@home",
"url": "http://www.rechenkraft.net/yoyo/@",
"base_url": "http://www.rechenkraft.net/yoyo/",
"display_url": "http://www.rechenkraft.net/yoyo/",
"stats_url": "http://www.rechenkraft.net/yoyo/stats/",
"time": "2020-05-08 21:48:41 UTC"
}
}
```
Output of projects:
```
[
{
"Project": "Amicable Numbers",
"URL": "http://sech.me/boinc/Amicable/"
},
{
"Project": "asteroids@home",
"URL": "http://asteroidsathome.net/boinc/"
},
{
"Project": "collatz conjecture",
"URL": "http://boinc.thesonntags.com/collatz/"
},
{
"Project": "cosmology@home",
"URL": "http://www.cosmologyathome.org/"
},
{
"Project": "einstein@home",
"URL": "http://einstein.phys.uwm.edu/"
},
{
"Project": "gpugrid",
"URL": "http://www.gpugrid.net/"
},
{
"Project": "lhc@home classic",
"URL": "https://lhcathome.cern.ch/lhcathome/"
},
{
"Project": "milkyway@home",
"URL": "http://milkyway.cs.rpi.edu/milkyway/"
},
{
"Project": "nfs@home",
"URL": "http://escatter11.fullerton.edu/nfs/"
},
{
"Project": "numberfields@home",
"URL": "https://numberfields.asu.edu/NumberFields/"
},
{
"Project": "odlk1",
"URL": "https://boinc.multi-pool.info/latinsquares/"
},
{
"Project": "rosetta@home",
"URL": "http://boinc.bakerlab.org/rosetta/"
},
{
"Project": "SRBase",
"URL": "http://srbase.my-firewall.org/sr5/"
},
{
"Project": "TN-Grid",
"URL": "http://gene.disi.unitn.it/test/"
},
{
"Project": "universe@home",
"URL": "http://universeathome.pl/universe/"
},
{
"Project": "World Community Grid",
"URL": "https://www.worldcommunitygrid.org/"
},
{
"Project": "yafu",
"URL": "http://yafu.myfirewall.org/yafu/"
},
{
"Project": "yoyo@home",
"URL": "http://www.rechenkraft.net/yoyo/"
}
]
```

Reviewer: Yeah that would work

projects you could possibly contribute to that would help your Gridcoin
Research
wallet.

## If it says "non participating project" does that mean that they aren't accepted for Gridcoin purposes?

That means you aren't participating in those projects or the e-mail
address you have in the conf file doesn't match the e-mail address used
in your BOINC manager on that machine. For every project you join, you
also have to join the Gridcoin team on that project. Any changes about
e-mail address on a project or team membership on a project take around
a day to
propagate.

## I use BOINC with one username but on a few machines - is it enough to have one wallet with the proper boinc\_project\_email address, or do I have to have a separate wallet on each machine?

You only need one wallet for each BOINC account/CPID (Cross Project
Identifier). You can use BAM (BOINC Account Manager) to combine more
projects in one CPID. Here is a guide

> <http://grcnation.com/en/bam-boinc-account-manager/> . Your reward is

Reviewer: This website isn't online anymore. Needs to be replaced with something else

Author: What is suitable?

based on the credit in your BOINC account/CPID. You can point as many
machines and resources to a single account as you want and only need a
single wallet to receive your reward. You do have to set "email=" in the
config file to your BOINC/BAM email and must be running the wallet on a
machine that has BOINC installed and is associated with all BOINC
projects you would like to get credit for (they can be set to not
retrieve new work) and each project must show at least some RAC on that
machine (press "Update" in the BOINC software when a project which shows
0 contribution is
selected).

> ## BOINC: For our accounts, we used to have to use our Gridcoin address as our usernames for those accounts. Is that the case still, and if so, should we change our address info over to the "new" client addresses? Like under BAM/BOINC Stats, our stats/info isn't searchable via e-mail address but is via username. Just wondering what we can/should use for going forward.

Reviewer: I haven't heard of anyone asking this. I think we can probably get rid of this question

Changing your BOINC name to a Gridcoin Address is not needed anymore.
Now just set "email=" in the gridcoinresearch.config file, ensure you
are in team Gridcoin in each project, that should do
it.

## Instead of discussing every single BOINC project to be added, is there any shared guidelines to be used for accepting or rejecting them?

> No, but there may be a defined process one day. Currently, decisions are

Reviewer: There is a guideline now at https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Tasks/issues/227

placed individually due to a vote within the blockchain. The discussed
project is then added or deleted from the dynamic whitelist.

As far as hardware requirements, projects should be able to run on both
64 and 32 bit OSes. Some BOINC projects are limited to architecture. We
definitely need a set of guidelines to follow before adding a project to
the whitelist. It is favorable to choose projects that are accessible
to the masses.

## How do I delete a project from my list of CPIDs?

We used to support detaching but a vote was made to calculate magnitude
on every project you still have valid RAC on; so GRC does not support
detaching projects (it was supposed to prevent gaming the system). There
is no difference if you score 0 on a projects, as all are taken into
account equally.

> If you insist on not being paid for a specific project, change your team

Reviewer: Same deal about this with the team requirement stuff

away from team Gridcoin for that project.

# Status

## How can I see my Researching Status?

> If you have some BOINC credits, you are in team Gridcoin and your email

Reviewer: `you are in team Gridcoin` same deal about the upcoming team requirement removal

> is correct in the gridcoinresearch.conf file you should see a list of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is correct in the gridcoinresearch.conf file. You should see a list of

```

> the projects you are participating in when entering "*list cpids*" to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your magnitude in each project when entering "*explainmagnitude*" to
```

the debug console of the wallet (Help -\> Debug Window -\> Console). It
may take 24-48 hours for new accounts to be populated.

> If you then type `rsa` you will see your Research Savings Account

Reviewer: All the rsa commands need to be updated. This is no longer a command

## What command to get RSA using the headless wallet?

`rsaweight` gives the value the client will use when it forwards the
block.

## How to call commands when starting Gridcoin Wallet on Windows?

Create shortcut that links to the actual GRC program in Program Files
directory and add the function at the end of the target, then properly
name them for the function to execute:

Example with -rescan option: Make a new shortcut to "C:\\Program Files
(x86)\\GridcoinResearch\\gridcoinresearch.exe" or "C:\\Program
Files\\GridcoinResearch\\gridcoinresearch.exe"

Add the command to execute at the end of the 'Target:' line like
"C:\\Program Files (x86)\\GridcoinResearch\\gridcoinresearch.exe"
-rescan .

Rename the shortcut like 'GRC rescan'.

Then go to Advanced and tick on run as Administrator.

From now on when you double click on it, it will execute that Command
Line function.

This way it is simpler and faster for newbies than CLI and
batch.

## How could I check whether my local block is the same as on a explorer?

After you double click on the tx in the list, write down the block
number (not hash).

Then do

showblock blocknumber

And compare the details with details from explorer.

> Btw, just for fyi, if you do want to get a block by hash, you would have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do want to get a block by hash, you would have
```

to:

getblockhash blocknumber

getblock blockhash

> But that is a little longer :)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But that is a little longer
```

# Upgrade

## How do I upgrade the Gridcoin wallet client?

Download the installer from
[Github](https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research/releases)
and install over your previous installation.

> Deleting the appdata folder is not recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not delete the appdata\\GridcoinResearch folder. This contains
data like your keys which let you access the your coins
```

## How to compress my wallet getting rid of orphans?

The quick and easy way.

1.  Close your client and rename wallet.dat to wallet.bak
2.  Start client. Once started, click receive coins and see your 1st
    address and copy the address down.
3.  Close client and rename wallet.dat to somethingelse.bak
4.  Rename wallet.bak to wallet.dat
5.  Start client and send all coins to the address you copied down in
    step 2.
6.  Make sure you get at least 10 confirmation for the transaction.
7.  Close client and rename wallet.dat to wallet.bak and rename
    somethingelse.bak to wallet.dat
8.  Start client and enjoy your new wallet.

The reason why you should never dump private keys or wallet is that if
your PC is compromised, you probably won't know it and the moment you
dump your keys, someone on the listening side will get your private key,
and therefore get your coins.

Yes. You will lose your coin stake, and it will take 4 hours for coins
to start staking again.

## What should I do to recover an old backup of my wallet?

Backup wallet.dat.

Look for the %appdata%\\Roaming\\GridcoinResearch\\walletbackups folder.

> Find the youngest backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find the most recent backup.

Shutdown the wallet

```

Copy it to the %appdata%\\Roaming\\GridcoinResearch directory and rename
it wallet.dat.

> Restart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restart the wallet.
```

If you have no backup you will have to do the -salvagewallet as starting
option.

# Sync

## I have lots of connections, but synchronizing stopped at a certain block. What should I do?

Try this:

1.  Make sure Gridcoin is running as an administrator.
2.  Close the client
3.  Clean out your Gridcoin Appdata folder EXCEPT wallet.dat, your
    GridcoinResearch.conf file and the folders walletbackups and testnet
    if present. For windows '%appdata%/Roaming/GridcoinResearch', For
    Linux '\~/.GridcoinResearch'
4.  You can also get the snapshot [Here](http://download.gridcoin.us/download/downloadstake/signed/snapshot.zip)
    and extract it to the Gridcoin data folder. For windows -\>
    '%appdata%/Roaming/GridcoinResearch', For Linux
    '\~/.GridcoinResearch.

There is also an [official
thread](https://cryptocointalk.com/topic/20303-gridcoin-proof-of-research-connection-sync-problem-thread/)
for sync problem if it didn't work.

## How could I test whether I am in sync with the network?

Compare your highest block number with the one listed at

> <http://www.gridresearchcorp.com/gridcoin/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[gridcoinstats.eu](https://gridcoinstats.eu/block)
```

When the explorer is clearly ahead of you (\> 9 blocks) and increasing
about every 90 seconds, your node is most likely on the fork. You can
wait till it syncs or rebuild the block chain.

When you are clearly ahead of the explorer and / or the explorer has
stopped incrementing on a regular basis, it's more likely that the
explorer will sync up with you and your connected nodes at some point.

## How to get back in sync fast?

Ensure you have upgraded to latest wallet version.

Try using the snapshot you can get it [Here](http://download.gridcoin.us/download/downloadstake/signed/snapshot.zip).

> While it downloads, delete the peers.dat in

Reviewer: Not sure I would recommend doing this

%appdata%\\Roaming\\GridcoinResearch - you may have a bad peer group.

While the client restarts after the download blocks, you can also try to
switch off/on your router if you get a new IP with that, to make sure
you are not banned by good nodes because of earlier behavior.

## I certainly fell off the consensus chain, how to get back on?

1. ensure you are running the latest version

2. try to restart the client

3. try to use the [snapshot](http://download.gridcoin.us/download/downloadstake/signed/snapshot.zip).

If you tried each of the steps above and are sure you are running the
correct version

Backup your wallet.dat file

Close the Gridcoin-Research wallet

In the roaming folder delete all but gridcoinresearch.conf and
wallet.dat and the wallet backup folder.

Check your [List of Addnodes](List_of_Addnodes "wikilink")

Start Gridcoin-Research and wait. If you continue to have trouble visit
the technical support forum:
<https://cryptocointalk.com/forum/2380-technical-support/>

## I still can't get connections. How can I test, whether the net is down or my node is misconfigured?

> Open Windows/Linux command box and enter "telnet node.gridcoin.us

Reviewer: This is no longer online. Should use some other check

Author: What other check would you recommend?

Reviewer 2: @nathanielcwm I'd use `telnet addnode-us-central.cycy.me 32749`

<https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research>

## How could I participate in testnet?

Testnet is just like production (regular wallet), except it uses a
different port and a different directory; so you copy your
gridcoinresearch.conf down a level (%appdir%/gridcoinresearch/testnet)
and everything works almost the same, except the diff rules make it
slightly easier and of course all the money is fake. The data files are
stored one directory down also. You will have to start
Gridcoinresearch.exe with -testnet flag, for example due to the creation
of a shortcut with this flag.

For Windows, simply add testnet=1 to gridcoinresearch.conf file. The
wallet will automatically create the necessary directories. To revert to
normal wallet, change it to testnet=0.

# Troubleshoot

## After reloading blockchain some coins are no longer in my wallet

Try running the client with "-rescan" or run the console command
"repairwallet".

## My wallet has smaller balance than last time. How to fix?

Try starting Gridcoin with option '-rescan'. Go in debug and do
"repairwallet" or "rebuilt block chain" to fix the local amount.

## What needs to happen to be added to the chain as a newbie?

> 1\) All the normal prerequisites mentioned: Team Gridcoin, Verified

Reviewer: Same deal with the team requirement

Netsoft RAC \> 100 in at least 1 project, correct email in the
gridcoinresearch.conf.

> 2\) A GRC balance \~100. Staking at a minimum of 16 hours so the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2\) A GRC balance \~5000. Staking at a minimum of 16 hours so the
```

stakeable coins are mature.

3\) The wallet has to be fully unlocked (untick "for staking only")
until it automatically sends a beacon. You can force the wallet to do so
once it recognizes your CPID. Go to the debug console and do
`advertisebeacon force`.

> 4\) Once #3 is fulfilled, that node should be in the Neural Network

Reviewer: Same deal about the neural network

within 12 hours.

Check the balance first and see how long the node has been online. Let
the wallet run as often as you
can.

## How to get out of the loop of cycling app crashes (Microsoft Visual C++ Runtime Library Assertion failed)?

Delete the content of the folder called 'txleveldb' in
%appdata%\\Roaming\\GridcoinResearch and restart. Once your wallet is
up, you have connections and its synching use download blocks
feature.

> ## I can't rebuild block chain as it stays at 0 blocks, and clicking download blocks doesn't help!

Reviewer: This menu was removed from the wallet, probably should remove this part

Almost all of your computing power can be directed at beneficial scientific and medical
research while crunching Gridcoin.

See the list of [Advantages &

> Features](Advantages_&_Features "wikilink").

Reviewer: I am working on creating a new version of this page, so we can still keep it in even if the link is dead for a little bit

Author: sure thing
